Welcome to this lecture about data types.
What are they exactly?
Well, when we write code, we manipulate data or information, just like we did when we printed the
words Hello world or your name?
Some numbers.
All that information or data.
The data comes in different types.
The word hello is a text data type or string, and the number 150 is a numeric data type.
So far we have used the definitions, print and input to manipulate only text and numbers.
But text and numbers are just two different types of data, and those are not the only ones.
And in this lecture, I want to introduce you to the most common ones in programming.
Text is known as a string and is defined by the letters.
S t are any word, sign space or even number that is enclosed in quotes is a string.
We also have integers.
You already know them.
In programming we define integers as I and T, and any integer, positive or negative that is not enclosed
in quotes is an integer.
The main advantage of integers is that you can do operations on them, their numbers, but they are
not the only numbers that exist because there is another type of data known as floating or float, which
are decimal numbers.
Also positive or negative.
And you can do operations between them as well.
If they are not enclosed in quotes.
If they are enclosed in quotes, they will no longer be float and will become strings.
The following group of data types that I am going to mention are considered as collections, because
even when they are also data types themselves, they contain groups of elements inside them.
The first of these collections are the lists and its definition is LCT.
A list is nothing more than an ordered collection of objects.
Lists are written in square brackets, and they can contain objects of all kinds.
They can be many strings, integers or floats, or even a collection of elements of different types
of data.
The important thing about this is that the order of their elements is important, as each element has
a numbered place or index from zero upwards.
In this example, the word mahs has the index number for the next data type.
Also a collection data type are the dictionaries.
This data type is defined as DCT and its contents are written between phrases.
Dictionaries consist of grouped pairs of words.
Each pair contains two elements a key and a value.
Think of the dictionaries you already know, which consist of a set of pairs that are a word and a definition.
Well, here you have something similar, a key and its value.
Note, however, that pairs are not ordered within the dictionaries while each pair has its internal
order.
First the key and then the value.
The pairs are not ordered with an index within a dictionary.
I know it all seems to get complicated from here, but I promise that when you see these data types
in action and see what we use them for, it will be much clearer than it is right now.
What follows are tuples or tables?
Tuples, however you want to pronounce it.
And they are defined as tough.
They are written in brackets and are very similar to lists.
Since they are and ordered a set of elements and their elements can be any data type.
However, they have a fundamental difference there.
Order is immutable and lists.
There are methods that allow you to add, delete and even reorder elements.
Tuple elements, on the other hand, are elements that have an order that can never be modified.
This limitation may seem unnecessary, but as we will see later, it can be very useful in some occasions.
Another common data type, also a collection are the sets.
They are defined as set and are written between braces.
A set is nothing more than an ordered set of unique elements.
All this dictionaries and tuples can have repeated elements and that is what differentiates sets in.
This case, each of its elements is unique and unrepeatable.
And finally, we are going to mention another data type.
And this one is not a collection, but a simple data type called booleans or balls, which are very
simple, logical values.
A boolean is data that can only have two values.
True or false?
This type of data is very, very useful, especially when we need our code to make decisions.
In those cases, we are going to use Booleans to know if a condition is fulfilled.
True or it is not fulfilled.
False.
To achieve today's goal and create the code for our program, we will continue working with text and
numbers or strings and integers and we will add decimal numbers or floats.
We are going to know them in more depth and we are also going to do some interesting things like conversions
between types of data, for example, transforming a string into an integer and vice versa or an integer
into a float.
In the near future of this course, you will need to start working with the other data types I just
mentioned.
But these lectures are fundamental, so pay close attention to all the practices and above all, have
a lot of fun.